#### Data Structures And Algorithms Enhancement

For this enhancement, I have implemented a binary search algorithm.  While I already understood the logic behind a binary search, I had not used one in my code before.  To complete this task, I decided to incorporate a binary search method to expedite the addition of foods to a user's diet.  This required updates to one user interface and the addition of another.  A new recyclerview was necessary for the user to view their current day's food data.  A new food catalog interface was necessary for the user to add foods to their food catalog.  After the completion of these interfaces, the binary search algorithm was built using a while loop that tracked the first and last indices of a list and compared the middle of the two to the user entry.

The most difficult part of this enhancement for me was deciding where a binary search would be useful in my code.  I initially thought that using a binary search for database operations would be useful, but soon discovered that indexes are both simpler and faster, assuming storage capacity is not a major issue.  I finally decided to use a binary search to reduce the amount of database queries required.  I did this by using a static ArrayList to store a food catalog, complete with calorie and macro-nutrient information.  By doing this, the user can now add a food from their catalog by simply typing in its name and clicking the add button.  Previously, the user would need to fill in all the information every time.  When the user clicks the add button, the binary search algorithm searches the food catalog for their food and returns it so it can be added to their diet.  During the completion of this task, I learned about the importance of choosing the correct type of algorithm for the specified job.

[Back to Home Page](/)
