#### I'm Perry
## I build Android applications

I currently study computer science at Southern New Hampshire University. During my time in the program, I have learned about many of the different aspects that encompass computer science. The exposure to many different subjects was very helpful for me in determining which areas I am interested in and which I am not. If not for a previous course at SNHU I would not have realized my interest in designing applications.  The combination of both front and back-end development is an enticing challenge for me.  I hope to pursue a career in full-stack development because I will be involved in every step of projects I complete. Working on my project has shown me the value and satisfaction to be found in using programming to turn an idea or interest into a final product.
Developing the content for my ePorfolio has showcased my strengths as I have built an Android application using the Java programming language.  I developed a fitness application that allows users to store and track different fitness information such as weight, calorie intake, macros, and more. The data is stored in SQLite. In the future, I would like to add functionality to enable the user to store data in an online data server as well. To ensure data security, users are given only the necessary permissions to complete their tasks. My fitness app is not particularly collaborative among users, but if a user was given too much permission it could have very bad outcomes. A user might find their diligently tracked data deleted or stolen. My application makes use of a sorting algorithm to sort user data into alphabetical lists, providing them an easy way to get previously stored information.

The courses I have taken at SNHU have also allowed me to learn about both collaborating with team members and communicating with stakeholders. For instance, in one course, my class collaborated using a version control system to share project updates. Without version control, large projects with shared workloads between multiple people would be impossible because changes could possibly be unrecognizable from other versions before they are even ready to be shared. Agile is a project management method used to integrate stakeholders with developers throughout the software development lifecycle instead of at the beginning and end.  This increases the likelihood that the investors will receive a finished product that does what they expect. I am certain knowledge of version control and Agile method will be invaluable in my future workplace to facilitate collaboration with my peers.

In this portfolio I have shared one artifact.  This artifact combines showcases knowledge of UI design, software development, SQLite database, and Android Studio to prodce a fitness application.  The application uses lots of widgets to display lists of information that the user has previously entered.  This information is later used to supply the user with user recommendations based on their goals.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/js-9ILXXGbw" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>


[Original Fitness Application](https://github.com/PerryWolfe93/WeightTrackingApp/tree/online-db-setup)

[Updated Fitness Application](https://github.com/PerryWolfe93/WeightTrackingApp/tree/master/app)

The Fitness Application artifact linked above was included in the portfolio because it displays improvements in software development, data structures and algorithms, and databases.  This artifact was created for a previous course, Mobile Architecture and Programming.  The application allows users to create an account and track their weight, exercise, and diet data.  The application also gives the user feedback based on the data they have entered.  Every week a new recommendation will be displayed.  If the user's goal was to gain muscle, but they are losing weight with their current data, the program will add to the user's calorie allowance.  In completing these enhancements, I finally learned the importance of choosing the correct class to include certain methods inside of.  Choosing the wrong class to store a method can cause lots of problems.  In my project, many methods had to be moved around in order to make the application work as I intedndid.  I also learned how to connect to an online  server.  I planned to incorporate an online database, but after having success connecting to a database during a test run, I did not continue the.  I used Android Studio to build the artifact.

For my first enhancement I added user recommendations.  The biggest problem with this is synchronizing when new recommendation data would be produced as each of the methods were in a separate class.  In the end I combined all of the data into one method that would appear on the activity page that the user sees upon login.  If th date is a week from the last update, the user will get new recommendations based on their previously entered data.  The recommendations spread to each of the other user activities.  If the user has been exercising, they will receive words of praise, or on the other hand will be recommended with potential goals.  The users calorie goal will also adjust based on their exercise and weight data.
For the second enhancement I added a food class for the user to store their food.  When a certain date is selected from a dropdown list, a new list of foods stored by that user on that day should pop up.  The foods are sorted alphabetically using a sorting algorithm that uses a while loop with an if statement to traverse the original list in search of the lowest value string.  That string is added to a new list and then removed from a copy of the previous list.  This copy is searched in the next loop to exclude the previously selected result.
For the final enhancement, I planned to connect the application to an online database so data could be tracked from any android device that had the application, but after spending lots of time just getting the connection to establish, I did not complete this enhancement.  Now that I know how to complete the connection process, I plan on setting up an online and local database system that will sync between devices.
